W-17316117 Managed Flex troubleshooting topics (#776)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.9/modules/ROOT/pages/flex-troubleshoot-managed-maintenance.adoc

= Troubleshooting Managed Gateway Maintenance
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

> When viewing or maintaining Anypoint Managed Flex Gateway instances, you might encounter issues. Check these topics for possible causes and solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When viewing or maintaining Anypoint Managed Flex Gateways, you might encounter issues. Check these topics for possible causes and solutions.
```

* xref:#gateway-metrics-not-showing[Missing Gateway Metrics]
* xref:#cant-change-gateway-properties[Gateway Properties Not Editable]
* xref:#timeout-while-waiting-for-update[Timeout While Waiting for Update]
* xref:#gateway-missing-disabled[Gateway is Missing or Disabled]
* xref:#same-path-error[API Path Conflict]

[[gateway-metrics-not-showing]]
== Missing Gateway Metrics

> In Runtime Manager, if you can't see metrics for your gateway from the Managed Flex Gateway dashboard, verify that you have the _Usage Viewer_ permission. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Runtime Manager, if you can't see metrics for your gateway from the Managed Flex Gateway dashboard, ensure that you have the _Usage Viewer_ permission. 
```

Verify your permissions::

> Check your assigned roles and permissions for Runtime Manager in Access Management to verify that you have the required _Usage Viewer_ permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check your assigned roles and permissions for Runtime Manager in Access Management to ensure that you have the required _Usage Viewer_ permission.
```

Your Anypoint Platform Admin can add these permissions in Access Management.

> See xref:access-management::configure-teams.adoc#manage-team-permissions[Manage Team Permissions] for more information. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see xref:access-management::configure-teams.adoc#manage-team-permissions[Manage Team Permissions] . 
```

[[cant-change-gateway-properties]]
== Can't Change Gateway Properties

> Some Managed Flex Gateway properties, such as such as *Gateway Name*, *Deployment Target*, and *Flow plans*, can't be edited after the gateway instance is created. If you need to change one of these properties, you must delete and recreate your Managed Flex Gateway with the desired values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can't edit some Managed Flex Gateway properties, such as *Gateway Name*, *Deployment Target*, and *Flow plans*, after the gateway instance is created. To change these properties, you must delete and recreate your Managed Flex Gateway with the desired values.
```

[[timeout-while-waiting-for-update]]
== Timeout While Waiting for Update

> If your Managed Flex Gateway update or deletion is stalled, refresh the status and check again in a few minutes. Delays can happen when the Anypoint Platform is handling a lot of traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your Managed Flex Gateway update or deletion is stalled, refresh the status and check again in a few minutes. Delays might happen when the Anypoint Platform is handling a lot of traffic.
```

[[gateway-missing-disabled]]
== Gateway is Missing or Disabled in API Manager

> In API Manager, when adding an API instance to a gateway, if you do not find your Managed Flex Gateway in the API Manager *Select a gateway* list, or the Managed Flex Gateway is disabled, verify the gateway status in Runtime Manager. If the gateway status isn't *Running*, you can the probelm from Runtime Manager. If the gateway status is *Running*, but still unavailable in API Manager, there might be a cluster issue, and you should contact MuleSoft Support for assistance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When adding an API instance to a gateway, if you don't find your Managed Flex Gateway in the API Manager *Select a gateway* list or the Managed Flex Gateway is disabled, view the gateway status in Runtime Manager to ensure the gateway is running. If the gateway status isn't *Running*, fix the probelm from Runtime Manager. If the gateway status is *Running* but still unavailable in API Manager, there might be a cluster issue, and you should contact MuleSoft Support for assistance.
```

[[same-path-error]]
== API Path Conflict

> If you see the *This path conflicts with another API* error in API Manager when an API to a Managed Flex Gateway, you must choose a different base path. Each API instance in a Flex Gateway must be unique (within the gateway). To fix this problem, change the API path to a unique value or edit the path of the conflicting API. Click *API* in the error message to view or edit the API instance with the conflicting path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an API to a Managed Flex Gateway, if you see the *This path conflicts with another API* error in API Manager, you must choose a different base path. Each API instance in a Flex Gateway must be unique within the gateway. To fix this problem, change the API path to a unique value or edit the path of the other API instance. Click *API* in the error message to view and edit the API instance with the conflicting path.
```
